---
layout: post
title:      "Why am I even here?"
date:       2018-11-10 22:57:14 +0000
permalink:  why_am_i_even_here
---



    I think that the average person is expected to pick what they want to do with their lives far too early in life. Freshman year of high school, they are warned that if they don't exercise their time and resources wisely, they won't be able to get into college (much less the one they want), and if they don't have a degree, good luck finding a job. Although the purpose of that is to motivate teenagers (and motivate it does), I believe it's also destructive in it's own fashion. When senior year rolls around, you have to make a choice. What university do you want to go to and why? Some universities have great STEM programs, other's fantastic music departments. Once you've made the choice based off that general understanding, you'll head into your freshman year and pick a specific major. Now, at 18 years old, you're ready to begin learning about your field and spend the rest of your life in that career. 
		
		To ask someone so young to invest, usually a very large amount of money into education that may or may not be their primary focus a few years after college ends is a beautiful scam. I don't want to speak for everyone, but the majority of individuals I know, including myself, are looking into fields of work that have no relation to their college education. I don't sound completely misunderstood, my criminal justice degree was very interesting and introduced me to a realistic perspective of the world. If I had decided that it would be the appropriate route for me, I'd likely turn out quite successful. However, almost a year out of school, I decided to join Flatiron School and become a software engineer. So that being said, not doing very will with consistency.
		
		This wasn't a random decision, however. I didn't wake up one day and think, "I am now going to be a software engineer, time to get to work!". I've always had a passion for technology. I look at hardware and software and constantly wonder, how does that work? The complexities of human innovation are some of the most astounding concepts ever, parallel to time and space. I think I got this thought process from my dad, who's a huge nerd (Star Trek, mathematics loving sort of guy).
		
		Specifically, programming peaked my interest when I was in early middle school. I remember making fan forums for video games I used to play. Some of which actually found success. I would tinker with basic HTML, CSS, and design simple logos. As the years went on, I familiarized myself more with design and got very comfortable with server hosting, MySQL, DNS management, and other intricacies of websites. I even played with Java some. I just never formally taught myself how to code anything specifically beyond markup or CSS. It was exciting being able to create something that other people would use, especially when I worked with other people on projects. I had a very unique feeling of professionalism at a young age. 
		
		About midway through highschool, I distanced myself from tech, as my interests began to shift. I didn't realize it then, but looking back, I realize I felt stagnant. I didn't think I was actually progressing or learning anything substatial, and that I wasn't smart enough to make a career out of it. I genuinely believed I would not be able to even do what I can do now (which isn't all that much yet). So, when that decision making time came around during my freshman year of college, I chose a major that I thought is more "achievable," whatever that means. I went into criminal justice. Don't get me wrong, it was a great experience and I even went through police academy when I was in college and served as a police officer for nearly three years. I wouldn't trade my college experience for the world, either. It was an incredible social time and I met some of my closest friends. 
		
		When I graduated, I knew I wanted to try something new and explore life outside of Massachusetts. I was accepted into a program called The Washington Center in Washington, D.C. and served as a legislative intern for U.S. Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. That was an incredible experience and it made me realize there are so many more interesting fields to explore beyond criminal justice. When the program ended, I decided to stay in Washington and explore my opportunities in the expanding metropolitan job market.
		
		I've learned a lot over this past year living in Washington. However, the biggest thing I've learned is that I should be happy doing what I chose as a field of work. An even bigger realization, that field would not be criminal justice nor politics. I wanted to do something that excites me and the only thing I could think of was programming. About 8 months ago, I decided to re-enter the field from an academic standpoint and begin learning Javscript, along with re-familiarizing myself with what I already knew. This was a paramount moment in my life, because It led me to the point of joining this program. I decided that all that time of telling myself I wasn't capable of learning this was time being wasted. I know that if I maintained my learning curve from when I was 12 years old, I would be in a completely different place in my life. If anything, that just reiterates the problem I was talking about earlier. 
		
		At a young age, I was one of the few to know what I actually wanted to do with my life, but at the same time and oddly enough, I didn't know it was that. It's never too late to begin executing on your interests. If you know what you're passionate about and you're scared of failing, just remember that failing is a part of learning. No matter what field you go into, you are going to fail in some aspects. It's how you get better. So do what I did, stop dwelling on your fears, and start failing as fast as possible. 
	
